# Parallelized Pseudo-Random Number Generator Library for Go #

## Introduction ##

Another pseudo-random number generator (PRNG). This was designed to be a faster
alternative to the built-in /dev/urandom device built into most Linux kernels.
This PRNG is based on the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) cipher operating
in cipher-block chaining (CBC) mode. Some initial data is continually encrypted
over and over and should provide pseudo-random data of cryptographic quality.

This implementation can generate data significantly faster than /dev/urandom by
running generator routines in parallel. By default, this library only operates
using one routine, but the number of routines can be set using the
SetNumRoutines function. The reference command-line implementation sets the
number of routines to be equal to the number of cores available.

High-end processors are starting to support the AES-NI instruction set that can
vastly improve AES encoding rates. The underlying Go library does
take advantage of these instructions if available. In that situation, this
library is likely to be more memory-throughput bound than CPU bound. Other
than each generator occupying about 1MB of memory, this should not lead to
noticeable degradation of performance since generators will block if their
outputs are not consumed fast enough.

The author does not take responsibility for any damages potentially caused if
the data generated by this library is not actually cryptographically-secure.


## Installation ##

To install the Go package:

1. Run the command: ```go get github.com/dsnet/gorandom```
2. Import into Go code: ```import "github.com/dsnet/gorandom/rand"```

To install the gorandom binary (assumes ```$GOPATH/bin``` is in your ```$PATH```):

1. Run the command: ```go get github.com/dsnet/gorandom/cmd/gorandom"```
2. Execute the binary: ```gorandom```


## Results ##

On an Intel Core i7-3770, the data rates generated by this library are:

* 1 routines: 62.3 MB/s
* 2 routines: 126.5 MB/s
* 3 routines: 170.8 MB/s
* 4 routines: 201.1 MB/s
* 5 routines: 219.4 MB/s
* 6 routines: 230.3 MB/s
* 7 routines: 248.3 MB/s
* 8 routines: 252.7 MB/s

The diminishing returns on performance with increased number of routines is
likely caused by the system starting to be memory-throughput bound rather than
CPU bound.

For comparison, the system urandom device provided by Linux 3.8.0 is capable
of generating data at 15.8MB/s.
